Server 10.12.1 Release Notes (#4824)
owncloud/docs: modules/ROOT/pages/server_release_notes.adoc

* xref:changes-in-8-0[Changes in 8.0]
* xref:changes-in-7-0[Changes in 7.0]

== Changes in 10.12.1

Dear ownCloud administrator, find below the changes and known issues in ownCloud Server 10.12.1 that need your attention. You can also read the {oc-changelog-url}[full ownCloud Server changelog] for further details on what has changed.

> === Add rewrite base to .htaccess

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Add RewriteBase to .htaccess
```

> In previous core versions the rewrite base config.php option was not added to the generated .htaccess file. The use of a more hardened .htaccess file in version 10.12.0 (being introduced by https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40584) caused the files view in the web UI to be empty in URL via subfolder plus index.php-less setups. Additionally, the desktop app was not be able to sync and an error 405 (Method not allowed) was returned. Rewrite base is now correctly added to the .htaccess file. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40697[#40697]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous core versions the rewrite.Base config.php option was not added to the generated .htaccess file. The use of a more hardened .htaccess file in version 10.12.0 (being introduced by https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40584) caused the files view in the web UI to be empty in URLs with a subfolder and in setups without index.php. Additionally, the Desktop app was not able to sync and an error 405 (Method not allowed) was returned. RewriteBase is now correctly added to the .htaccess file. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40697[#40697]
```

> === Prevent 507 Insufficient Storage on 32-bit systems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Prevent 507 Insufficient Storage on 32-Bit Systems
```

> With the introduction of https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40567 compatibility to 32-bit systems broke as we are now casting $freeSpace to int and this caused an integer overflow on such systems when the free space was above the max supported value. We added therefore an additional check for 32-bit systems in QuotaPlugin.php. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40709[#40709]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the introduction of https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40567 compatibility with 32-bit systems broke as we are now casting $freeSpace to int and this caused an integer overflow on such systems when the free space was above the max supported value. We added therefore an additional check for 32-bit systems in QuotaPlugin.php. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40709[#40709]
```

> === User-key encryption is no longer auto-enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== User-Key Encryption Is No Longer Auto-Enabled
```

* xref:changes-in-8-0[Changes in 8.0]
* xref:changes-in-7-0[Changes in 7.0]

== Changes in 10.12.1

Dear ownCloud administrator, find below the changes and known issues in ownCloud Server 10.12.1 that need your attention. You can also read the {oc-changelog-url}[full ownCloud Server changelog] for further details on what has changed.

=== Prevent 507 Insufficient Storage on 32-Bit Systems

With the introduction of https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40567 compatibility with 32-bit systems broke as we are now casting $freeSpace to int and this caused an integer overflow on such systems when the free space was above the max supported value. We added therefore an additional check for 32-bit systems in QuotaPlugin.php. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40709[#40709]

=== User-Key Encryption Is No Longer Auto-Enabled

> Executing the "encryption:encrypt-all" occ command will no longer auto-enable user-key encryption. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40702[#40702]

Reviewer 2: Maybe also add a note reminding readers that user-key encryption has been deprecated (since oC 10.7 - I think that is correct).

Reviewer 3: See docs-server PR https://github.com/owncloud/docs-server/pull/912

=== Package firebase/php-jwt in files_texteditor

> Since version 2.5.0 of the files_texteditor app we use Firebase\JWT\JWT, but this dependency was not directly shipped with files_texteditor. This was not an issue in case the files_external and WOPI apps were enabled as they include the same dependency. However, in case both apps were disabled the functionality of the files_texteditor app broke. We now ship this dependency in files_texteditor as well. https://github.com/owncloud/files_texteditor/pull/389[files_texteditor#389]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since version 2.5.0 of the files_texteditor app we use Firebase\JWT\JWT, but this dependency was not directly shipped with files_texteditor. This was not an issue if the files_external or WOPI app(s) were enabled as they include the same dependency. However, if both apps were disabled the functionality of the files_texteditor app broke. We now ship this dependency in files_texteditor as well. https://github.com/owncloud/files_texteditor/pull/389[files_texteditor#389]
```

* xref:changes-in-8-0[Changes in 8.0]
* xref:changes-in-7-0[Changes in 7.0]

== Changes in 10.12.1

Dear ownCloud administrator, find below the changes and known issues in ownCloud Server 10.12.1 that need your attention. You can also read the {oc-changelog-url}[full ownCloud Server changelog] for further details on what has changed.

=== Fix Permission Bits when Enforcing Passwords on Public Links

Passwords on public link files with read + write permission were not correctly enforced. The usage of the permissions bits has been now fixed so that, when selecting "Enforce password protection for read + write + delete links", passwords are correctly enforced. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40701[#40701]

=== Prevent 507 Insufficient Storage on 32-Bit Systems

With the introduction of https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40567 compatibility with 32-bit systems broke as we are now casting $freeSpace to int and this caused an integer overflow on such systems when the free space was above the max supported value. We added therefore an additional check for 32-bit systems in QuotaPlugin.php. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40709[#40709]

=== Fix quota for 32-Bit Systems

> Quota calculation on 32 bit systems sufferend from an inconsistent use of float and integer data types. The fix now correctly supports that the size could be either an integer or a float. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40729[#40729]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quota calculation on 32 bit systems suffered from an inconsistent use of float and integer data types. The fix now correctly supports that the size could be either an integer or a float. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40729[#40729]
```

=== Fix Permission Bits when Enforcing Passwords on Public Links

Passwords on public link files with read + write permission were not correctly enforced. The usage of the permissions bits has been now fixed so that, when selecting "Enforce password protection for read + write + delete links", passwords are correctly enforced. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40701[#40701]

=== Prevent 507 Insufficient Storage on 32-Bit Systems

With the introduction of https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40567 compatibility with 32-bit systems broke as we are now casting $freeSpace to int and this caused an integer overflow on such systems when the free space was above the max supported value. We added therefore an additional check for 32-bit systems in QuotaPlugin.php. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40709[#40709]

=== Fix quota for 32-Bit Systems

> Quota calculation on 32 bit systems sufferend from an inconsistent use of float and integer data types. The fix now correctly supports that the size could be either an integer or a float. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40729

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quota calculation on 32 bit systems suffered from an inconsistent use of float and integer data types. The fix now correctly supports that the size could be either an integer or a float. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40729
```
